In this video, we'll take another look at the JEP 463 capabilities, and in particular,
we're going to demonstrate an implicitly declared class.
So basically, we're going to have a source code file with no class definition at all
in it.
We'll just have a main method, and in this case, I also added a second method just to
show that you can actually have now in Java a file that just contains a bunch of method
definitions, which is more like what you would write in perhaps a C program or a Python
program, for example.
So for this demo, we've got a file called implicitclass.java, and it has an instance
main method in it.
Now I'm going to go ahead and open this in IntelliJ once again.
This is the second project in the What's New in Java Lesson 2 related examples.
So I'll go ahead and select that and click Open.
And for this version of the demonstration, we have an instance main method.
Notice there's no class definition in here.
We have an instance main method that calls displayMessage, and displayMessage in turn
is going to display the same string we showed you in the last example, welcome to Java programming.
So if I go ahead and run the main method here, you can see that indeed it just works.
There is no class definition here.
So what's happening is Java is automatically creating an unnamed class that wraps these
capabilities inside of it, and main is in fact able to see other method definitions
within this source code file and invoke them directly as I demonstrated here.
And just like I did in the previous example, I could go out to the command line and run
implicitclass.java directly.
But again, this is a preview feature, so you will need the command line options that
I showed you in that last video.
The enablePreview and the source options if you're going to run the file directly, and
then if you're going to compile then run the file, you need the enablePreview and source
options for the compiler, and the enablePreview option for the Java runtime command.